docs/docs/database/models/identity.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Identity

The Identity model represents a single identity with its state for a user in the coaching system. It stores the core components of user identities including "I Am" Statements, visualizations, and progress tracking through different states.

## Overview

The Identity model stores user identities with their components (name, "I Am" Statement, visualization), tracks progression through different states, and categorizes identities by life areas for organized coaching.

## Fields

- `id` (UUIDField): Primary key, auto-generated UUID
- `user` (ForeignKey): Link to [User](./users.md) model
- `name` (CharField): Concise identity label, max 255 characters, optional
- `i_am_statement` (TextField): "I am" statement with description, optional
- `visualization` (TextField): Vivid mental image, optional
- `state` (CharField): Current identity state, max 32 characters, defaults to ACCEPTED
- `notes` (ArrayField): List of notes about the identity
- `category` (CharField): Identity category, max 32 characters
- `created_at` (DateTimeField): Creation timestamp, auto-set
- `updated_at` (DateTimeField): Last update timestamp, auto-updated
- `test_scenario` (ForeignKey): Link to [TestScenario](./test-scenario.md) for test data isolation, optional

## Configuration

- `verbose_name`: "Identity"
- `verbose_name_plural`: "Identities"

## Methods

- `__str__()`: Returns name truncated to 30 characters, category, and state

## Relationships

- Many-to-One with [User](./users.md) (via `identities`)
- One-to-Many with [CoachState](./coach-state.md) (via `current_coach_states` and `proposed_coach_states`)
- Many-to-One with [TestScenario](./test-scenario.md) (via `test_scenario`)

## Identity State Choices

- `PROPOSED`: Identity has been proposed but not yet accepted
- `ACCEPTED`: Identity has been accepted by the user
- `REFINEMENT_COMPLETE`: Identity refinement process is complete

## Identity Category Choices

- `PASSIONS`: Passion-based identities
- `VALUES`: Value-based identities
- `STRENGTHS`: Strength-based identities
- `GOALS`: Goal-based identities
- `RELATIONSHIPS`: Relationship-based identities
- `CAREER`: Career-based identities
- `HEALTH`: Health-based identities
- `FINANCE`: Finance-based identities
- `SPIRITUALITY`: Spirituality-based identities
- `CREATIVITY`: Creativity-based identities

## Usage Context

- Core model for storing user identities in the coaching system
- Tracks identity progression through different states
- Stores identity components ("I Am" Statement, visualization, notes)
- Categorized by life areas for organized coaching approach
- Supports test scenario isolation for development
- Referenced by CoachState for current and proposed identities

Commit message:

docs: Update Identity model and API docs for scene fields
Add clothing, mood, and setting fields to Identity model documentation
and API endpoint examples. These fields are used for scene customization
in identity image generation.

docs/docs/database/models/identity.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Identity

The Identity model represents a single identity with its state for a user in the coaching system. It stores the core components of user identities including "I Am" Statements, visualizations, and progress tracking through different states.

## Overview

The Identity model stores user identities with their components (name, "I Am" Statement, visualization), tracks progression through different states, and categorizes identities by life areas for organized coaching.

## Fields

- `id` (UUIDField): Primary key, auto-generated UUID
- `user` (ForeignKey): Link to [User](./users.md) model
- `name` (CharField): Concise identity label, max 255 characters, optional
- `i_am_statement` (TextField): "I am" statement with description, optional
- `visualization` (TextField): Vivid mental image, optional
- `clothing` (TextField): What the person is wearing in this identity visualization, optional
- `mood` (TextField): Emotional state/feeling in this identity visualization, optional
- `setting` (TextField): Environment/location for this identity visualization, optional
- `state` (CharField): Current identity state, max 32 characters, defaults to ACCEPTED
- `notes` (ArrayField): List of notes about the identity
- `category` (CharField): Identity category, max 32 characters
- `created_at` (DateTimeField): Creation timestamp, auto-set
- `updated_at` (DateTimeField): Last update timestamp, auto-updated
- `test_scenario` (ForeignKey): Link to [TestScenario](./test-scenario.md) for test data isolation, optional

## Configuration

- `verbose_name`: "Identity"
- `verbose_name_plural`: "Identities"

## Methods

- `__str__()`: Returns name truncated to 30 characters, category, and state

## Relationships

- Many-to-One with [User](./users.md) (via `identities`)
- One-to-Many with [CoachState](./coach-state.md) (via `current_coach_states` and `proposed_coach_states`)
- Many-to-One with [TestScenario](./test-scenario.md) (via `test_scenario`)

## Identity State Choices

- `PROPOSED`: Identity has been proposed but not yet accepted
- `ACCEPTED`: Identity has been accepted by the user
- `REFINEMENT_COMPLETE`: Identity refinement process is complete

## Identity Category Choices

- `PASSIONS`: Passion-based identities
- `VALUES`: Value-based identities
- `STRENGTHS`: Strength-based identities
- `GOALS`: Goal-based identities
- `RELATIONSHIPS`: Relationship-based identities
- `CAREER`: Career-based identities
- `HEALTH`: Health-based identities
- `FINANCE`: Finance-based identities
- `SPIRITUALITY`: Spirituality-based identities
- `CREATIVITY`: Creativity-based identities

## Usage Context

- Core model for storing user identities in the coaching system
- Tracks identity progression through different states
- Stores identity components ("I Am" Statement, visualization, notes)
- Categorized by life areas for organized coaching approach
- Supports test scenario isolation for development
- Referenced by CoachState for current and proposed identities
