docs/docs/core-systems/action-handler/actions/combine-identities.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Combine Identities

The `combine_identities` action merges two existing [Identity](/docs/database/models/identity) records into a single identity.

## Action Details

**Action Type**: `combine_identities`  
**Enum Value**: `ActionType.COMBINE_IDENTITIES`  
**Handler Function**: `combine_identities()`  
**Models Used**: [Identity](/docs/database/models/identity), [Action](/docs/database/models/action)

## What It Does

Combines two identities into one by merging their names and notes, then deletes the second identity. The combination follows specific rules based on identity categories.

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type   | Required | Description                    |
| -------------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `identity_id_a` | integer | Yes      | The ID of the first identity  |
| `identity_id_b` | integer | Yes      | The ID of the second identity |

## Implementation Steps

1. **Validation**: Ensures the two identity IDs are different and both exist for the user
2. **Category Rules**: Applies combination rules based on identity categories:
   - If exactly one is "Passions and Talents" → delete that one, keep the other
   - If neither or both are "Passions and Talents" → keep A, delete B
3. **Name Combination**: Creates combined name as "NameA/NameB"
4. **Notes Merging**: Merges notes from deleted identity into kept identity with source markers
5. **Cleanup**: Deletes the second identity
6. **Action Logging**: Records the action with result summary

## Example Usage

```json
{
  "action": "combine_identities",
  "params": {
    "identity_id_a": 123,
    "identity_id_b": 456
  }
}
```

## Result

- **Success**: Merges the identities and returns `None`
- **Validation Error**: Raises `ValueError` if IDs are the same or identities don't exist
- **Logging**: Records the action with result summary: "Combined identities into 'Creative Visionary/Artistic Soul'. Deleted 'Artistic Soul' (456)."

## Related Actions

- [Create Identity](create-identity) - Create new identities
- [Update Identity](update-identity) - Modify existing identity details
- [Show Combine Identities](show-combine-identities) - Display UI component for combining identities

Commit message:

Casey/ic updates (#36)
* added script to convert images to jpeg - used when downloading images from Adolo

* added archived identity state

* added achive identity action

* added achive identity action docs

* updated combine identites action to archive instead of delete

* added nest_identities action

* added nest_identities component

* added docs for creating persistent components

* added initial storybook boilerplate

* added msw for intercepting http requests for storybook

* updated storybook to work with a mock tanstack query provider

* updated styles for the nest identity component

* added identity ids context key

* added initial code for archive identity component

* updated archive animation; added identities bulletin to the IC phase

* added the accept identity commitment action to the no response on archive component

docs/docs/core-systems/action-handler/actions/combine-identities.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Combine Identities

The `combine_identities` action merges two existing [Identity](/docs/database/models/identity) records into a single identity.

## Action Details

**Action Type**: `combine_identities`  
**Enum Value**: `ActionType.COMBINE_IDENTITIES`  
**Handler Function**: `combine_identities()`  
**Models Used**: [Identity](/docs/database/models/identity), [Action](/docs/database/models/action)

## What It Does

Combines two identities into one by merging their names and notes, then archives the second identity (instead of deleting it). The archived identity is preserved in the database for historical reference but is excluded from active coaching workflows. The combination follows specific rules based on identity categories.

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type   | Required | Description                    |
| -------------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| `identity_id_a` | integer | Yes      | The ID of the first identity  |
| `identity_id_b` | integer | Yes      | The ID of the second identity |

## Implementation Steps

1. **Validation**: Ensures the two identity IDs are different and both exist for the user
2. **Category Rules**: Applies combination rules based on identity categories:
   - If exactly one is "Passions and Talents" → archive that one, keep the other
   - If neither or both are "Passions and Talents" → keep A, archive B
3. **Name Combination**: Creates combined name as "NameA/NameB" for the kept identity
4. **Notes Merging**: Merges notes from archived identity into kept identity with source markers
5. **Archiving**: Archives the second identity instead of deleting it:
   - Adds a note to the archived identity indicating it was combined/nested with the kept identity
   - Sets the identity state to `ARCHIVED`
   - Preserves the identity in the database for historical reference
6. **Action Logging**: Records the action with result summary

## Example Usage

```json
{
  "action": "combine_identities",
  "params": {
    "identity_id_a": 123,
    "identity_id_b": 456
  }
}
```

## Result

- **Success**: Merges the identities and returns `None`
- **Validation Error**: Raises `ValueError` if IDs are the same or identities don't exist
- **Logging**: Records the action with result summary: "Combined identities into 'Creative Visionary/Artistic Soul'. Archived 'Artistic Soul' (456)."

## Behavior

- **Archived Identity**: The identity that gets archived:
  - Remains in the database with all its original data
  - Is marked with state `ARCHIVED`
  - Has a note added indicating it was combined/nested with the kept identity
  - Is excluded from active coaching workflows (commitment lists, I Am Statements, etc.)
  - Can still be accessed via direct ID lookup or with `?include_archived=true` query parameter

## Related Actions

- [Create Identity](create-identity) - Create new identities
- [Update Identity](update-identity) - Modify existing identity details
- [Archive Identity](archive-identity) - Archive a single identity
- [Show Combine Identities](show-combine-identities) - Display UI component for combining identities
